backend/README.md, before:

# FastAPI Project - Backend

## Requirements

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for Python package and environment management.

## Local Development

- Start the stack with Docker Compose:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

- Now you can open your browser and interact with these URLs:

Frontend, built with Docker, with routes handled based on the path: http://localhost

Backend, JSON based web API based on OpenAPI: http://localhost/api/

Automatic interactive documentation with Swagger UI (from the OpenAPI backend): http://localhost/docs

Adminer, database web administration: http://localhost:8080

Traefik UI, to see how the routes are being handled by the proxy: http://localhost:8090

**Note**: The first time you start your stack, it might take a minute for it to be ready. While the backend waits for the database to be ready and configures everything. You can check the logs to monitor it.

To check the logs, run:

```bash
docker compose logs
```

To check the logs of a specific service, add the name of the service, e.g.:

```bash
docker compose logs backend
```

If your Docker is not running in `localhost` (the URLs above wouldn't work) you would need to use the IP or domain where your Docker is running.

## Backend local development, additional details

### General workflow

By default, the dependencies are managed with [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/), go there and install it.

From `./backend/` you can install all the dependencies with:

```console
$ poetry install
```

Then you can start a shell session with the new environment with:

```console
$ poetry shell
```

Make sure your editor is using the correct Python virtual environment.

Modify or add ODMantic models for data in `./backend/app/models.py`, API endpoints in `./backend/app/api/`, CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) utils in `./backend/app/crud.py`.

### Enabling Open User Registration

By default the backend has user registration disabled, but there's already a route to register users. If you want to allow users to register themselves, you can set the environment variable `USERS_OPEN_REGISTRATION` to `True` in the `.env` file.

After modifying the environment variables, restart the Docker containers to apply the changes. You can do this by running:

```console
$ docker compose up -d
```

### VS Code

There are already configurations in place to run the backend through the VS Code debugger, so that you can use breakpoints, pause and explore variables, etc.

The setup is also already configured so you can run the tests through the VS Code Python tests tab.

### Docker Compose Override

During development, you can change Docker Compose settings that will only affect the local development environment in the file `docker-compose.override.yml`.

The changes to that file only affect the local development environment, not the production environment. So, you can add "temporary" changes that help the development workflow.

For example, the directory with the backend code is mounted as a Docker "host volume", mapping the code you change live to the directory inside the container. That allows you to test your changes right away, without having to build the Docker image again. It should only be done during development, for production, you should build the Docker image with a recent version of the backend code. But during development, it allows you to iterate very fast.

There is also a command override that runs `/start-reload.sh` (included in the base image) instead of the default `/start.sh` (also included in the base image). It starts a single server process (instead of multiple, as would be for production) and reloads the process whenever the code changes. Have in mind that if you have a syntax error and save the Python file, it will break and exit, and the container will stop. After that, you can restart the container by fixing the error and running again:

```console
$ docker compose up -d
```

There is also a commented out `command` override, you can uncomment it and comment the default one. It makes the backend container run a process that does "nothing", but keeps the container alive. That allows you to get inside your running container and execute commands inside, for example a Python interpreter to test installed dependencies, or start the development server that reloads when it detects changes.

To get inside the container with a `bash` session you can start the stack with:

```console
$ docker compose up -d
```

and then `exec` inside the running container:

```console
$ docker compose exec backend bash
```

You should see an output like:

```console
root@7f2607af31c3:/app#
```

that means that you are in a `bash` session inside your container, as a `root` user, under the `/app` directory, this directory has another directory called "app" inside, that's where your code lives inside the container: `/app/app`.

There you can use the script `/start-reload.sh` to run the debug live reloading server. You can run that script from inside the container with:

```console
$ bash /start-reload.sh
```

...it will look like:

```console
root@7f2607af31c3:/app# bash /start-reload.sh
```

and then hit enter. That runs the live reloading server that auto reloads when it detects code changes.

Nevertheless, if it doesn't detect a change but a syntax error, it will just stop with an error. But as the container is still alive and you are in a Bash session, you can quickly restart it after fixing the error, running the same command ("up arrow" and "Enter").

...this previous detail is what makes it useful to have the container alive doing nothing and then, in a Bash session, make it run the live reload server.

### Backend tests

To test the backend run:

```console
$ bash ./scripts/test.sh
```

The tests run with Pytest, modify and add tests to `./backend/app/tests/`.

If you use GitHub Actions the tests will run automatically.

#### Test running stack

If your stack is already up and you just want to run the tests, you can use:

```bash
docker compose exec backend bash /app/tests-start.sh
```

That `/app/tests-start.sh` script just calls `pytest` after making sure that the rest of the stack is running. If you need to pass extra arguments to `pytest`, you can pass them to that command and they will be forwarded.

For example, to stop on first error:

```bash
docker compose exec backend bash /app/tests-start.sh -x
```

#### Test Coverage

When the tests are run, a file `htmlcov/index.html` is generated, you can open it in your browser to see the coverage of the tests.

Commit message:

adding atlas information in readme

backend/README.md, after:

# FastAPI Project - Backend

## Requirements

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for Python package and environment management.
- [MongoDB_Atlas] (https://www.mongodb.com) for cloud-based database hosting and management.

## MongoDB Atlas Setup

1. Sign up for a free MongoDB Atlas account at https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register
2. Create a new cluster (the free tier is sufficient for development)
3. In the cluster security settings, add your IP address to the IP whitelist
4. Create a database user with read and write privileges
5. Obtain your MongoDB connection string from the Atlas dashboard
6. Add your MongoDB connection string to the `.env` file in the project root
7. Add your database name to the `.env` file in the project root

## Local Development

- Start the stack with Docker Compose:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

- Now you can open your browser and interact with these URLs:

Frontend, built with Docker, with routes handled based on the path: http://localhost

Backend, JSON based web API based on OpenAPI: http://localhost/api/

Automatic interactive documentation with Swagger UI (from the OpenAPI backend): http://localhost/docs

Traefik UI, to see how the routes are being handled by the proxy: http://localhost:8090

**Note**: The first time you start your stack, it might take a minute for it to be ready. While the backend waits for the database to be ready and configures everything. You can check the logs to monitor it.

To check the logs, run:

```bash
docker compose logs
```

To check the logs of a specific service, add the name of the service, e.g.:

```bash
docker compose logs backend
```

If your Docker is not running in `localhost` (the URLs above wouldn't work) you would need to use the IP or domain where your Docker is running.

## Backend local development, additional details

### General workflow

By default, the dependencies are managed with [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/), go there and install it.

From `./backend/` you can install all the dependencies with:

```console
$ poetry install
```

Then you can start a shell session with the new environment with:

```console
$ poetry shell
```

Make sure your editor is using the correct Python virtual environment.

Modify or add ODMantic models for data in `./backend/app/models.py`, API endpoints in `./backend/app/api/`, CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) utils in `./backend/app/crud.py`.

### Enabling Open User Registration

By default the backend has user registration disabled, but there's already a route to register users. If you want to allow users to register themselves, you can set the environment variable `USERS_OPEN_REGISTRATION` to `True` in the `.env` file.

After modifying the environment variables, restart the Docker containers to apply the changes. You can do this by running:

```console
$ docker compose up -d
```

### VS Code

There are already configurations in place to run the backend through the VS Code debugger, so that you can use breakpoints, pause and explore variables, etc.

The setup is also already configured so you can run the tests through the VS Code Python tests tab.

### Docker Compose Override

During development, you can change Docker Compose settings that will only affect the local development environment in the file `docker-compose.override.yml`.

The changes to that file only affect the local development environment, not the production environment. So, you can add "temporary" changes that help the development workflow.

For example, the directory with the backend code is mounted as a Docker "host volume", mapping the code you change live to the directory inside the container. That allows you to test your changes right away, without having to build the Docker image again. It should only be done during development, for production, you should build the Docker image with a recent version of the backend code. But during development, it allows you to iterate very fast.

There is also a command override that runs `/start-reload.sh` (included in the base image) instead of the default `/start.sh` (also included in the base image). It starts a single server process (instead of multiple, as would be for production) and reloads the process whenever the code changes. Have in mind that if you have a syntax error and save the Python file, it will break and exit, and the container will stop. After that, you can restart the container by fixing the error and running again:

```console
$ docker compose up -d
```

There is also a commented out `command` override, you can uncomment it and comment the default one. It makes the backend container run a process that does "nothing", but keeps the container alive. That allows you to get inside your running container and execute commands inside, for example a Python interpreter to test installed dependencies, or start the development server that reloads when it detects changes.

To get inside the container with a `bash` session you can start the stack with:

```console
$ docker compose up -d
```

and then `exec` inside the running container:

```console
$ docker compose exec backend bash
```

You should see an output like:

```console
root@7f2607af31c3:/app#
```

that means that you are in a `bash` session inside your container, as a `root` user, under the `/app` directory, this directory has another directory called "app" inside, that's where your code lives inside the container: `/app/app`.

There you can use the script `/start-reload.sh` to run the debug live reloading server. You can run that script from inside the container with:

```console
$ bash /start-reload.sh
```

...it will look like:

```console
root@7f2607af31c3:/app# bash /start-reload.sh
```

and then hit enter. That runs the live reloading server that auto reloads when it detects code changes.

Nevertheless, if it doesn't detect a change but a syntax error, it will just stop with an error. But as the container is still alive and you are in a Bash session, you can quickly restart it after fixing the error, running the same command ("up arrow" and "Enter").

...this previous detail is what makes it useful to have the container alive doing nothing and then, in a Bash session, make it run the live reload server.

### Backend tests

To test the backend run:

```console
$ bash ./scripts/test.sh
```

The tests run with Pytest, modify and add tests to `./backend/app/tests/`.

If you use GitHub Actions the tests will run automatically.

#### Test running stack

If your stack is already up and you just want to run the tests, you can use:

```bash
docker compose exec backend bash /app/tests-start.sh
```

That `/app/tests-start.sh` script just calls `pytest` after making sure that the rest of the stack is running. If you need to pass extra arguments to `pytest`, you can pass them to that command and they will be forwarded.

For example, to stop on first error:

```bash
docker compose exec backend bash /app/tests-start.sh -x
```

#### Test Coverage

When the tests are run, a file `htmlcov/index.html` is generated, you can open it in your browser to see the coverage of the tests.
